charts/ai-software-templates/chatbot/README.md, before:



# Chatbot AI Sample Helm Chart
![Version: 0.1.3](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.3-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square)

This Helm Chart deploys a Large Language Model (LLM)-enabled [chat bot application](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-samples/tree/main/chatbot).

## Background

This Helm Chart creates the following components:

### The Model Service
Based on the `llama.cpp` inference server and related to the [ai-lab-recipes model server](https://github.com/containers/ai-lab-recipes/tree/main/model_servers/llamacpp_python).

### The Application
A [Streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit) application to interact with the model service which is based on the related [Chatbot Template](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-template/tree/main/templates/chatbot/content).

### The GitOps Job
A [job](./templates/application-gitops-job.yaml) which takes care of the creating the application github repository.

### The Tekton Repository
A [repository](./templates/tekton-repository.yaml) which connects our application with the `pipeline-as-code-controller` which allows us to manage all webhooks received from our GitHub Application.

## Prerequisites

- A [Github Application](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rhdh-installer/blob/main/docs/APP-SETUP.md#github-app) with `create repository` permissions for the GitHub Organization where the application will be created.
- Access to an OpenShift 4.x cluster with
    - permissions to deploy an application
	- an existing Namespace where your application will be deployed
	- correctly [installed](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/pipelines) and [configured](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-helm-charts/blob/main/docs/PIPELINES_CONFIGURATION.md) OpenShift Pipelines Operator which is connected to your GitHub Applications webhook
	- a Secret (of `key/value` type) in the existing Namespace containing a [Github Token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) with [these permissions](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rhdh-installer/blob/main/docs/APP-SETUP.md#procedure) to the given Github Organization

## Installation

### Using the OpenShift Developer Catalog

This Helm Chart can be installed from the [Developer Catalog](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/applications/creating_applications/odc-creating-applications-using-developer-perspective.html#odc-using-the-developer-catalog-to-add-services-or-components_odc-creating-applications-using-developer-perspective) using the [OpenShift Developer Console](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/web_console/web-console-overview.html#about-developer-perspective_web-console-overview).

### Using the Helm Install Command

This Helm Chart can be installed via the command line by running the following command:

```
helm upgrade --install <release-name> --namespace <release-namespace> .
```

**NOTE:**
You can create a `private-values.yaml` file that will be ignored by git to pass values to your Helm Chart.
Just copy the existing `values.yaml` file in this directory to `private-values.yaml` and make any necessary edits, then update your installation command as shown below:

```shell
helm upgrade --install <release-name> --namespace <release-namespace> -f ./private-values.yaml .
```

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| Red Hat AI Development Team |  | <https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev> |
## Source Code

* <https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-template>
## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>= 1.27.0-0`

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| application.appContainer | string | `"quay.io/redhat-ai-dev/chatbot:latest"` | The image used for the initial chatbot application interface |
| application.appPort | int | `8501` | The exposed port of the application |
| gitops.gitDefaultBranch | string | `"main"` | The default branch for the chatbot application Github repository |
| gitops.gitSecretKeyToken | string | `"GITHUB_TOKEN"` | The name of the Secret's key with the Github token value |
| gitops.gitSecretName | string | `"github-secrets"` | The name of the Secret containing the required Github token |
| gitops.gitSourceRepo | string | `"redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-samples"` | The Github Repository with the contents of the ai-lab sample chatbot application |
| gitops.githubOrgName | string | `""` | [REQUIRED] The Github Organization name that the chatbot application repository will be created in |
| gitops.quayAccountName | string | `""` | [REQUIRED] The quay.io account that the application image will be pushed |
| model.dbRequired | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of model database |
| model.existingModelServer | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of existing model server |
| model.includeModelEndpointSecret | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of bearer token authentication for existing model server authentication |
| model.initContainer | string | `"quay.io/redhat-ai-dev/granite-7b-lab:latest"` | The image used for the initContainer of the model service deployment |
| model.modelInitCommand | string | `"['/usr/bin/install', '/model/model.file', '/shared/']"` | The model service initContainer command |
| model.modelPath | string | `"/model/model.file"` | The path of the model file inside the model service container |
| model.modelServiceContainer | string | `"quay.io/ai-lab/llamacpp_python:latest"` | The image used for the model service |
| model.modelServicePort | int | `8001` | The exposed port of the model service |
| model.vllmSelected | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of vllms |

**NOTE:** Your helm release's name will be used as the name of the application github repository

Commit message:

Finalize generation script (#33)
* Remove support for dbRequired

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Pull updates after gitops lint

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Add newly imported values

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Update values

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Fix defaults

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Add modelMaxLength value

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Update resources after testing

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Update tmpl json schema

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Update readme template

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Add readme for generate.sh

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Add the generate.sh

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Rename github action

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Bump chatbot version

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>

* Update charts/ai-software-templates/README.md

Co-authored-by: Gabe Montero <gmontero@redhat.com>

* Update charts/ai-software-templates/README.md

Co-authored-by: Gabe Montero <gmontero@redhat.com>

* Update charts/ai-software-templates/README.md

Co-authored-by: Gabe Montero <gmontero@redhat.com>

* Update readme template

* Make app-config permanent

---------

Signed-off-by: thepetk <thepetk@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Gabe Montero <gmontero@redhat.com>

charts/ai-software-templates/chatbot/README.md, after:



# Chatbot AI Sample Helm Chart
![Version: 0.1.4](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.4-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square)

This Helm Chart deploys a Large Language Model (LLM)-enabled [chat bot application](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-samples/tree/main/chatbot).

## Background

This Helm Chart creates the following components:

### The Model Service
By default the `chatbot-ai-sample` uses the `llama.cpp` inference via the [ai-lab-recipes model server](https://github.com/containers/ai-lab-recipes/tree/main/model_servers/llamacpp_python).

However, the use of `vLLM` to deploy model services, as well as the use of existing model services is also supported:
* For the `vLLM` model service case, the `Values.model.vllmSelected` value should be `true`, the `Values.model.vllmModelServiceContainer` and the `Values.model.modelName` should be configured too.
* For the existing model service case, the `Values.model.existingModelServer` value should be `true` and the `Values.model.modelEndpoint` should be set to the URL of the existing model endpoint we would like to use for this deployment.
* In case the existing model service requires bearer authentication the `Values.model.includeModelEndpointSecret` should be set to `true`, the `Values.model.modelEndpointSecretName` and the `Values.model.modelEndpointSecretKey` should be configured.

### The Application
A [Streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit) application to interact with the model service which is based on the related [Chatbot Template](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-template/tree/main/templates/chatbot/content).

### The GitOps Job
A [job](./templates/application-gitops-job.yaml) which takes care of the creating the application github repository.

### The Tekton Repository
A [repository](./templates/tekton-repository.yaml) which connects our application with the `pipeline-as-code-controller` which allows us to manage all webhooks received from our GitHub Application.

## Prerequisites

- A [Github Application](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rhdh-installer/blob/main/docs/APP-SETUP.md#github-app) with `create repository` permissions for the GitHub Organization where the application will be created.
- Access to an OpenShift 4.x cluster with
    - permissions to deploy an application
	- an existing Namespace where your application will be deployed
	- correctly [installed](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/pipelines) and [configured](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-helm-charts/blob/main/docs/PIPELINES_CONFIGURATION.md) OpenShift Pipelines Operator which is connected to your GitHub Applications webhook
	- a Secret (of `key/value` type) in the existing Namespace containing a [Github Token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) with [these permissions](https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-rhdh-installer/blob/main/docs/APP-SETUP.md#procedure) to the given Github Organization

## Installation

### Using the OpenShift Developer Catalog

This Helm Chart can be installed from the [Developer Catalog](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/applications/creating_applications/odc-creating-applications-using-developer-perspective.html#odc-using-the-developer-catalog-to-add-services-or-components_odc-creating-applications-using-developer-perspective) using the [OpenShift Developer Console](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/web_console/web-console-overview.html#about-developer-perspective_web-console-overview).

### Using the Helm Install Command

This Helm Chart can be installed via the command line by running the following command:

```
helm upgrade --install <release-name> --namespace <release-namespace> .
```

**NOTE:**
You can create a `private-values.yaml` file that will be ignored by git to pass values to your Helm Chart.
Just copy the existing `values.yaml` file in this directory to `private-values.yaml` and make any necessary edits, then update your installation command as shown below:

```shell
helm upgrade --install <release-name> --namespace <release-namespace> -f ./private-values.yaml .
```

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| Red Hat AI Development Team |  | <https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev> |
## Source Code

* <https://github.com/redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-template>
## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>= 1.27.0-0`

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| application.appContainer | string | `"quay.io/redhat-ai-dev/chatbot:latest"` | The image used for the initial chatbot application interface |
| application.appPort | int | `8501` | The exposed port of the application |
| gitops.gitDefaultBranch | string | `"main"` | The default branch for the chatbot application Github repository |
| gitops.gitSecretKeyToken | string | `"password"` | The name of the Secret's key with the Github token value |
| gitops.gitSecretName | string | `"github-secrets"` | The name of the Secret containing the required Github token |
| gitops.gitSourceRepo | string | `"redhat-ai-dev/ai-lab-samples"` | The Github Repository with the contents of the ai-lab sample chatbot application |
| gitops.githubOrgName | string | `""` | [REQUIRED] The Github Organization name that the chatbot application repository will be created in |
| gitops.quayAccountName | string | `""` | [REQUIRED] The quay.io account that the application image will be pushed |
| model.existingModelServer | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of existing model server |
| model.includeModelEndpointSecret | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of bearer token authentication for existing model server authentication |
| model.initContainer | string | `"quay.io/redhat-ai-dev/granite-7b-lab:latest"` | The image used for the initContainer of the model service deployment |
| model.maxModelLength | int | `4096` | The maximum sequence length of the model. It is used only for the vllm case and the default value is 4096. |
| model.modelEndpoint | string | `""` | The endpoint url of the model for the existing model service case. Is used only if existingModelServer is set to true. |
| model.modelEndpointSecretKey | string | `""` | The name of the secret field storing the bearer value for the existing model service if the endpoint requires bearer authentication. Is used only if includeModelEndpointSecret is set to true. |
| model.modelEndpointSecretName | string | `""` | The name of the secret storing the credentials for the existing model service if the endpoint requires bearer authentication. Is used only if includeModelEndpointSecret is set to true. |
| model.modelInitCommand | string | `"['/usr/bin/install', '/model/model.file', '/shared/']"` | The model service initContainer command |
| model.modelName | string | `""` | The name of the model. By defaults it is set to instructlab/granite-7b-lab. It is used only for vllm and/or existing model service cases. |
| model.modelPath | string | `"/model/model.file"` | The path of the model file inside the model service container |
| model.modelServiceContainer | string | `"quay.io/ai-lab/llamacpp_python:latest"` | The image used for the model service. For the VLLM case please see vllmModelServiceContainer |
| model.modelServicePort | int | `8001` | The exposed port of the model service |
| model.vllmModelServiceContainer | string | `""` | The image used for the model service for the VLLM use case. |
| model.vllmSelected | bool | `false` | The bool variable for support of vllm instead of llama_cpp. Be sure that your system has GPU support for this case. |

**NOTE:** Your helm release's name will be used as the name of the application github repository
